[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi.
It's James here
from Food Matters.
And today, I'm excited to be
speaking with Jen Partridge.
She is the founder of
Dream Awake Tapping, author
and tapping facilitator helping
you unlock blocked emotions
and heal from trauma that could
be holding you back from living
the life that you deserve.
Jen, how are you doing?
>> I'm awesome.
I'm so happy to
be here with you.
True honor.
>> So I want to start
with your story.
Almost was there a catalyst
that sort of catapulted you
onto this journey of
discovering EFT, tapping?
Maybe it's not something
in your recent history.
Maybe it's something
that happened before you
were more cognizant of this.
How did you come
about uncovering
what it was that sort of
set you on this journey?
>> Mhm.
So I think like many
of us, I think we all
have some level of trauma
stored inside of our system,
and some more than less.
So for myself, I grew up in
a really beautiful family,
but I also had some sexual
trauma from an uncle,
or a person in our circle
that I was told to call uncle.
And there was sexual
molestation that took place.
And during that time,
obviously that's
overwhelming for a child, so you
block it out and you numb it,
and you forget about it.
And in that time, probably
about 15 years passed.
And I had certain
types of symptoms,
like fear of older
men and things
like that, but no
recollection of the memories.
When I hit my late teens,
early 20s, I went into drugs.
Lot of escapism.
Didn't want to be
with my thoughts,
didn't want to be
with my emotions,
and really run my body down.
I was having anxiety attacks.
I was really overwhelmed
energetically,
and I needed to
figure myself out.
I didn't know what was going on.
And it got to a peak time where
I started actually smashing
the window above my
bed to try to escape
in the middle of the
night, thinking that there
was an intruder coming in.
And I would have blood
running down my arms.
And it was like, what the hell
is going on in my subconscious?
And I tried Reiki, massage,
all sorts of energy healing,
yoga, meditation.
I just put myself
into everything
to try to figure out
what was going on.
And a lot of that
gave me peace, a lot
of that settled the waters, but
the patterns kept coming back.
And they weren't actually
clearing the patterns,
they were just
settling the waters.
And then I discovered
tapping, and it just
changed me massively in a
really short amount of time.
I started working on
the core piece, which
was like why am I getting up
in the middle of the night
and smashing a window,
and all the trauma
and fear that's
running through my body
when that's taking place.
And as I started to
use tapping on it,
the memories started to come.
And it was the very first
time I actually got my memory
back around what happened.
And probably for
about six months,
I did continual work on that,
and pulled out so many layers.
And more and more
memories kept unfolding,
and more and more love was
brought to those memories.
And all of the fear that
was trapped in my system
started to dissolve.
And those reactions that I would
have in the middle of the night
stopped, and I became
more peaceful inside.
And I realized, wow, this
is a method that has totally
helped me, totally changed
me, and it's up to me
to pay this forward, because
I really owe my life to it.
And since then, I've used
it on pretty much every area
of my life.
It's the tool that
I go to because it's
so quick for me and it
transforms things really fast.
>> Wow.
That waking up and attacking
a window is unique.
>> Yeah, I know.
>> I've had it
happen to me once.
>> Really?
>> I won't share that--
>> Oh, wow.
>> --now because I
want to stay with you,
but when you said that, I
was like, oh my goodness,
that's crazy.
Not the same thing, but.
How old were you?
Sort of what age were you?
What was growing up like?
Who was this uncle guy?
What are some of the scenarios
around your childhood
that you've started
to understand more
about that were
causing this trauma?
What was the sort of era?
You know, the '80s, early '80s ?
>> Yeah, it was the '80s.
And thank you for diving in
deep with me on this one.
It was in the '80s.
And my parents would hang
out with this other couple.
And my dad and this man
would drink a lot of beer,
and there were like just
kind of rowdy nights.
That's what I can
remember from it.
And I guess that there
was a level of unawareness
from my parents that
it was happening,
and that he would come in in
the middle of whatever they
were up to, and I was
always put in their bed.
So we would go to
my uncle's house.
They would all, like, have
some type of party or whatever,
and I would be in the back bed.
And he would come in.
And the very first memory
that actually came up for me
was kind of the bookend
of when it stopped.
And I remember, like--
I must have been
five years old, and I
remember standing
up and being like,
you're not coming in anymore.
And I was just like
wanting to, like, stop it,
and really feeling like I've
got to stand up for myself,
because before that, it
had happened so many times,
and then I would
fall back asleep.
And I believe that
it was happening
even before I could even talk.
And there were times when I
even tried to tell my auntie,
or who I was calling
auntie, about it.
And I remember that
someone had called him--
and mind my language-- a wanker.
And I knew that
that was a bad word.
And I was like, maybe that's
my way in to tell them
that something's going on.
Because I couldn't
even understand what
it was, but I knew
that it wasn't good.
And I was like, oh, uncle
so-and-so is a wanker.
And like, they
totally reacted at me.
Like, they shut me down.
It was the last time
that I ever was like, oh,
let me try to
communicate about this.
That was wrong to try
to communicate about it.
So I never spoke
to anyone about it,
and it just got really
bottled down more and more.
And I actually only
opened up to my family
about it probably like 7 to
10 years ago, when I first
started to uncover it.
And it was a hard process to go
through to even recognize like,
oh, did this really happen?
Like, I haven't remembered
this, and now, all of a sudden--
but I could feel it being
released in my body.
And the intense emotion
that was coming out
of me when I was healing, I was
like, you can't make this up.
And I think that's what
happens to a lot of people who
have blocked out trauma,
especially sexual abuse,
because I work with
a lot of women,
even men who have had
sexual abuse earlier on,
and they've numbed it out.
Oftentimes, they doubt that--
they think they're making it
up, or how could this be true.
But if there's emotion
running through your system
while you're processing it, you
know there's something there.
>> We're thankfully living in an
era where the vulnerability is
being rejoiced--
>> Yeah.
>> --around coming
forward on these topics.
>> Yeah.
>> And we've seen people in all
different industries and walks
of life start to
share their stories.
And I think it's created a
landscape for that discussion.
>> Right.
>> How have you seen the
conversation evolve since you
sort of-- you know,
you touched on it,
since you first started
talking about it,
come to be accepted more?
And also, how have
you found that process
in your own family?
Because that would
be the toughest,
like, environment
to talk about this.
>> Yeah, totally.
I think it's hard--
for anyone that hasn't
experienced that type of abuse,
it's hard for them
to really understand
what you're going through.
Like, you can communicate it
to them and they can go through
their series of emotions, shock
or feeling guilty that they
weren't aware, or different
things can come up,
but I still feel, if they
haven't experienced it,
it's really hard for
them to understand,
because even for me now,
I've cleared out like some
of the major boulders, but
there's like little fine-tuning
pieces that still--
like, I'm running a fine-tooth
comb through this process now,
and there's still little pieces
that occasionally come up.
It's not completely cleared.
And some people think, oh, it's
like you do a process around it
and you're done, but
there's so many strands.
And that's what I feel
like talking to my family
or talking to people that
haven't experienced it,
they don't understand how all
the layers interfere and affect
your psychology
through your life.
>> What have you discovered
personally around how this type
of trauma for you or other
types of trauma have impacted
your life, your
function as a human,
your capability to do things?
What are the biggest
things that you've noticed?
>> Mhm.
Well, I think at the start
it was harder to trust men.
And definitely being
around older men,
as well, like, I would feel
uncomfortable in my body just
being around an older man.
And I didn't know
why I had that.
I've cleared all
of that now, but I
think at the start there was
a lot of kind of like ugh.
And as a result, you attract
weird men because you're
seeing through a lens
of I can't trust men,
so you start to
attract weird men.
So when I moved to America and
I was in the Hollywood scene,
I attracted all of that type
of masculine energy towards me
that, you know, wanted to do
the whole casting couch thing.
So that was a part
of me healing it
because that brought all
of that stuff up again.
So it's actually a
gift that you attract
people similar to your trauma
because then it's pulling out
the trauma to be loved.
So that definitely happened.
And then in terms of,
like, getting over,
like, feeling more
trust in my body,
when I did one of the really
big taps, my hips, like,
literally reshaped
themselves, because I noticed
that I was actually, like, kind
of trying to protect myself
with one of my legs,
so like curving it over
into the middle, and my
hips were permanently, like,
kind of a little bit like that.
And when I tapped, my
hips went back into place
because the cellular memory
and the protection that
was happening on a subconscious
level cleared out, as well.
So physically, my body
started to change.
The way I related to
myself and my body
and how I honored my body and
what I stood for in my body
all shifted, as well.
And no longer am I
afraid of an older man
or what they could do
to me, which was just
the younger child speaking.
It's I'm comfortable
in myself now,
and no one can take advantage
of me because I'm in control.
So that has been a
journey to that place.
>> Beautiful.
I'm sure the journey
uncovered a lot of things
that you tried or
you experimented with
or you explored.
And by the sounds of
it, you eventually
sort of settled on tapping.
>> Mhm.
>> What are some
of the modalities,
what's some of the
exploration you did?
Who's some of the people's
work that you studied?
What did you read?
What did you uncover?
What did you learn about
trauma in that young period
of-- that developmental
period of life?
>> Mhm.
So I didn't start
uncovering my trauma
until I was probably
19 years old,
after being on a massive
level of escapism on drugs.
So at that point, not only did
I have to clear the trauma,
but I had to clear
all of the drug abuse
that was on top of the trauma.
So I went into, like,
so many modalities
to take care of
my physical body,
such as juicing and cleansing.
And then obviously, when you
do that, more emotions come up.
So I discovered meditation,
I discovered yoga,
I became a Reiki practitioner,
I started energy healing.
I pretty much read every
book that I could find.
Deepak Chopra was a
big influence on me,
just in terms of like
realigning my focus,
because often when you're
overtaken by emotion,
that can control everything
that's happening around you.
And just recognizing
that that core process
of realigning your mind when
you're in an emotional state
can really help sharpen
and direct your life.
Eckhart Tolle that was
an amazing one for me,
"The Power of Now."
And all of these
methods allowed me
to drop in and
recognize who I was,
and to let go of the story
that was controlling me.
And when you have a
lot of health issues
that are caused by
drugs, that's affecting
your psychology, that's
making you feel sick,
there's like detox going on.
And it's very easy for the
mind to identify with that
and say, oh, that's who I am.
And so these teachers, earlier
on I was reading their books,
but now I've had interviews
with Deepak Chopra
and introduced him on
stage, and these people
are now in my community.
And I'm like, wow, how
did I get to this place
where now I'm sharing a
stage with these people?
And these are the people
that I admire the most,
and these are the people that
helped me out of my trauma.
So I'm super grateful
for that, and I
feel like it's going to be
a continual journey in terms
of my discovery, as well.
Like, EFT is the place
that I've landed,
and I have pretty much
created my own version of EFT
because of all the
things I studied.
I did the Tony
Robbins University,
and so I apply a lot of NLP into
my tapping practice, as well.
Also, I really got into somatic
work, movement in the body,
recognizing where trauma
is held in the body.
So a lot of my teachings, they
bring in physical expression.
We do dance at the
end of my workshops
to really bring in celebration.
So it's not just
the tapping, it's
kind of a whole array of
things, which I've now packaged
as Dream Awake
Tapping, which I feel
is really important because,
when you're tapping,
you're clearing out the trauma,
you're breathing through it,
but one of the most
important things I've seen
is, like, really inviting
in celebration and joy,
because that is such a beautiful
alchemy to combat any pain
that you're having, as well.
So you want to process
the pain, but then you
want to reprogram it with
love and joy and beauty
and forgiveness.
>> Amazing.
I did see the Deepak interview.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Jelly.
[LAUGHTER]
Cool.
In your drug sort
of days, you said
that you did that for
escapism, but there
is some interesting
research around how--
even there is some
research, Gabor Mate,
I think, on how heroin
users are really
trying to replace
love that they didn't
receive when they were older.
Do you think that, on
top of the sexual abuse,
was there conditional love
or love that was lacking,
or were you doing it
for other reasons?
Have you--
>> Yeah.
>> --thought deeper
on that topic?
>> I have thought so
much about this topic,
because now I'm a really
deep believer in working with
different substances as
a medicine to support
your evolution, to support
your inward looking,
and working with, whether
it be psychedelics,
even MDMA and things like that.
I'm not so into MDMA
because of the chemical
feeling that I get, but
I have done medicine work
with some of these things
that people might call drugs,
and actually evolved
a lot of myself
because it creates a
container to really look deep.
And I feel like that
earlier time in my life,
yes, any escapism is
seeking to find love,
it's seeking to have
that connection,
it's seeking to feel
held and embraced,
and so it does give you that.
And so that's the
beautiful part about it.
But in that time in my life,
I was getting those feelings,
but I also wasn't doing
the inner work with them.
I was combining with
alcohol and smoking,
and my mindset wasn't
about looking within.
It was about partying and
not thinking about it.
Whereas now-- and you know,
I took a real long break,
probably about 10 years from,
like, those earlier crazy years
to actually say, wow, maybe this
could actually be a medicine.
And people that
came into my circle
were viewing it in
that sacred way,
in a container where you
could actually go deep
and you can do inner
work on yourself.
And some of that work has
been the most profound work,
in combination with the
tapping, to really look within
and change some of
the patterns or habits
or heal of things
that are causing you
trauma from the inside.
>> Have you done ayahuasca?
>> Mm, yeah.
I've used ayahuasca three
times, and each time
has been completely different.
The common thread
between it every time
was, for myself, in my
own experience of it--
and this is just my
experience, everyone
will say something
different, but for me, I
became deeply in touch with
the all-seeing dimension.
And that's why, in my logo,
I have an eye, because I've
realized through the
process of that medicine
that we can try to
hide things, which
is what the subconscious
is doing, but ultimately,
everything is watching
you all the time.
Everything is
revealed, everything
is being seen all the time,
and you actually can't really
hide it.
The whole universe,
all of creation
is watching you with this,
like, open eye of seeing.
And we come into
these physical bodies
and we think, oh, I've got to
hide this from everyone else.
But in reality, you're
actually not really hiding.
You think you are.
And that's been an
amazing medicine for me
because it's allowed me
to be more transparent
and to actually be able to look
at pain more, because I realize
it's important to look.
And that was one of
the greatest lessons
from ayahuasca, to actually
really open your eyes
and look at what's there
so that it can transmute,
because when you're not
looking at it, when you're
closing your eyes to it or
pretending it's not there,
it's still there, yet
it's creating chaos
underneath the surface for you.
So that was one thing
that's really come through
in ayahuasca ceremony.
I could talk about
so many things.
My very first
ayahuasca showed me
my life mission, why
I was here, like,
opened up all the codes for
me, really activated me in,
like, this is what you're
here to do on the planet.
And that was, like, a
huge movement forward.
And then I've had
experiences with ayahuasca
where I am, like, throwing up
24/7, my whole body convulsing.
Lost complete
control of my body.
They had to, like, drag
me out of the room.
My whole limbs were, like,
dragging along the ground.
And that was like total
surrender of ego and absorption
with the whole.
And I remember it was so hard
because I was being shown
all the pain of the world.
Like, the pain in Africa, like--
it was just like everything
was pain, pain, pain,
and look at the pain,
see the pain, which is
a big part of my work,
is to look at pain.
And I feel like it was like a
jumpstart, like are you really
ready to do this type of work?
Let's show you pain, then.
And it was a fast
track for my evolution
to look at so much pain.
And every time I saw
something painful, blegh,
I would, like, throw up again.
And it was a really, really hard
session, that particular one,
but I left it feeling like I was
so much more receptive to hold
space for pain, and
for other people's pain
and for my own pain.
>> Amazing.
>> Yeah.
>> And that was the second
one or the third one?
>> That was my last one.
>> Last one, OK, cool.
>> And since--
>> So no going--
>> --that one--
>> --back after that.
>> --I was like, all right,
I'm gonna take a break.
Yeah.
>> I'm good.
I'm good for now.
In your exploration,
you found tapping.
EFT, emotional
freedom technique.
How did you find it, and how
did you find it work for you?
>> Mhm.
So I originally met my teacher,
Sonya Sophia, at Burning Man,
out of all places.
And Burning Man,
if anyone's been,
then they know it's a
total creative expression
of the human spirit.
And I love that place
for that reason.
And she would run
these amazing groups,
like hundreds of people to
wear these beautiful big wings.
And like, she would dress
up in her angel avatar.
And I was staying at
the same camp as her,
and I did one of
her tapping sessions
and it really changed me.
And at the time, I was
like, wow, I'm in media,
so I actually interviewed her
for a radio show that I had.
And we really hit it off.
Several months later, she asked
me to be her right-hand girl
and help her produce all
of her video content.
And so I traveled with her,
did her teacher trainings,
and was really her right-hand
girl for three years,
and just soaked up
all of the training.
And during that time, did a
lot of healing myself, as well.
And I'm so grateful for
her and all the work
that she brought to
me, as well, and how
that gets to be rippled
out through my work now.
And in that time, I was also
studying other modalities,
as well.
I did the Tony
Robbins, and I started
to bring NLP into
the practice, music
into the practice,
movement into the practice.
And that's when I really spun
out and created my own thing,
as well.
>> So for the person
listening, what is EFT?
How does it work,
and how was that
so foundational in your process?
>> Mhm.
So emotional freedom technique,
some people call it tapping,
it's a blend of
modern psychology
and Chinese medicine.
So modern psychology,
if you've ever
been to a counselor
or a therapist,
you're talking about your
issues, your challenges.
And then while
you're doing that,
often you get triggered, right?
Your whole body.
Like, you're talking
about your trauma,
so you feel very triggered.
And the beautiful
thing about this
is we then start bringing
in the physical body,
we start clearing it out
through the meridians.
So in Chinese medicine,
if you've ever
done acupuncture or
acupressure, there's
specific points where
they place the needles.
And these are
basically the points
where there can be high
voltages of stagnation.
And when you place a
needle in those points,
it clears out that
stagnation point
and allows prana or
life force to move
through that
particular energy line.
And so what we're
doing in tapping,
while we're talking about
our issues out loud,
we start tapping on
some of these core
points while breathing
and circulating that prana
through those points, as well.
And then you move into the
reprogramming of the brain.
So they've shown
that when you start
to draw upon those memories,
you're opening up files
in your brain, as well.
And those files might
have emotions and memories
and thought forms and beliefs.
And you start going into those.
And as you open it up, if
it was not healed in love,
then it's likely that
there's fear there.
And the fear is basically
just shooting back and forth
between a synapse
and another synapse.
And basically,
it's glued together
by these protein bonds.
And so what happens
is something might
happen in your life that looks
like that earlier trauma,
or someone might enter that
looks like that earlier
person that hurt you, and
then that pathway fires up
and you go back to
that old pattern again,
that old belief,
that old emotion.
And that happens over
and over and over again.
We repeat cycles.
We attract similar
people into our lives.
And they've shown in
tapping, when you go in
and you open that up in your
mind and you start bringing it
love, empathy, and
forgiveness, the protein
bonds or the scaffolding
that's holding it all in place
starts to melt away and
the synapse opens out.
And then you can
rewrite your beliefs,
you can rewire your
system of thought.
We have so many neurons in our
brain, more neurons than stars
in the Milky Way galaxy,
and we use like 10% of them.
So we can actually start
rewriting, rerouting,
and choosing new
habits that are now
informed by love and
forgiveness and empathy,
and we can set up a new system
inside of our brain, as well.
So it's really powerful because
you're working on the brain,
you're working on
the physical body,
you're clearing out
the charge, and then
you're bringing in the spiritual
component, which is really
that love and compassion.
>> Love, compassion,
forgiveness.
Huge components in
emotional healing.
You did that through
tapping, by the sounds of it.
In your particular case,
did you forgive this person?
Did you do it in person?
Did you do it remote?
Are they still alive?
What was the actual sort
of process around that
specifically for you?
Or was it something you just
did alone in your bedroom,
like, look, I'm done,
I've sort of cleared this.
I don't know, like tell me
a little bit about that.
>> Mhm.
So he actually died
of testicular cancer,
out of all things.
And that happened way
before I ever recall.
So I must have been
like 12 years old,
and I didn't even know
I had trauma back then.
And so when I
figured it out, there
was no person to go
to process it with.
And I'm kind of OK
with that, actually,
because it wasn't something that
I needed him to get closure on.
I needed to get
closure in myself.
And I've done many taps on it.
You know, it took a
while to really come
to a place of forgiveness
and letting go.
And one of the
things that occurred
to me in a tapping
session that I did on it
was that, in my
instance, I actually
felt like he probably had
some type of sexual abuse,
as well, because abusers
usually do more abuse, right?
And if you were abused,
you usually abuse others,
until someone breaks
out of that cycle.
And I realized that a
child being molested
represents complete
sexual purity.
Like totally untainted,
totally clean.
And I feel like,
in some way, he was
seeking his own sexual purity
through touching another child,
because a child represents that.
And that was a really
interesting level of awareness
that came in when I did
that tapping session.
And I feel like that
allowed me to really let
it go and understand.
And obviously, like, the trauma
needs to be released, as well.
So the trauma and
the forgiveness
can sometimes be two
different things,
because you could
forgive someone,
but your body's still
holding protection.
So I was able to understand,
and like wow, OK, he clearly
was messed up, and someone
clearly messed him up, right?
Which is what happens.
And I'm able to let that go.
And then the rest of the healing
was like, OK, I'm safe now.
And for a while, even after
I was smashing the window,
after that settled
down, I was still
having nightmares of
someone breaking in.
But it wasn't as intense.
But one of the things
that I would start doing
was if I heard a noise,
especially if I was home
by myself, this voice
would come out of me,
and I'd be like, who's there?
Like, a really deep,
masculine voice
in the middle of the
night would come out,
and I'd like wake
myself up with it.
And one night, like, my partner
was watching TV or something
in the other room, and I had one
of those little episodes where
this deep voice came out
because I heard a noise.
And he started to laugh.
You know, because it was funny.
Like, your girlfriend,
like this little fairy
is making this
really deep voice.
He didn't know what
it was connected to.
But all of a sudden,
it like triggered
all this memory of feeling
like I had to be big in order
to protect myself.
And that allowed all of this
emotion to come out of me,
because I realized that I
didn't need to do that anymore,
and that I was safe.
And as a result, I was able
to clear even that pattern
because I know
that I'm safe now,
and that he's not coming back.
Because sometimes, the body is
like, what if he comes back?
I've got to be prepared.
I've got to be ready.
And it's interesting that
I named my brand Dream
Awake because it represents
such depths to me because I
would be asleep dreaming,
and then I wake up.
And those words are like--
they're part of why
I'm here on the planet.
They're part of my service.
They're part of my mission.
They mean so much to me.
And when I connected,
wow, it's like dreaming
and then awakening
and, like, feeling
like I gotta protect myself,
so that's how my company really
came into fruition.
And now, it's about, like,
awakening your dreams
and being awake in the dreams.
So those words have
really rung true for me.
>> Profound realization.
Almost this-- I've heard this
term, hurt people hurt people.
To me, that's where
you got to with this,
and that enabled you to sort of
release him from his actions.
That must have
been huge for you.
>> Mhm.
Definitely.
And I think to start with,
it was like, am I forgiving?
I'm not sure if I'm forgiving,
because you might forgive
a part of it, and
then something else
might come up, like
real anger towards him,
and you thought that
you'd fully let it go.
And that has been a
process of recognizing
that forgiveness doesn't
necessarily just happen
in one moment.
There might be many
strands that come up.
And you might think you're
completely done with it,
but then there's
another strand that
just hasn't been examined yet.
And so I've had an opportunity
to move through many phases
of that forgiveness.
And right now, I
feel really complete,
and I understand, and that's
why I'm in the work that I'm in.
But yeah, it was a process.
>> So you work with
other people now.
That's really beautiful.
You're extending your
passion, your mission
to help sort of sever the ties
of this sort of continuation
of pain and suffering or
subconscious conditioning
to then potentially hurt others.
What are the sort of typical
emotional traumas that you get
presented with with people
that you're working with?
What do you find is
most common, and what
do you find tapping
helps most effectively?
>> Mhm.
It's across the gamut.
So tapping works on
absolutely anything.
And I've worked with everything
from really intense cases
of kidnapping and rape to
money issues, relationship
challenges, personal
power, self-worth,
communication breakdowns.
You can really use tapping
on absolutely anything.
And the reason why it
works on everything
is because emotion
is in everything.
So for me, I've realized
as a practitioner,
you usually attract
people into your life
that you also need
work on, as well.
And tapping is
beautiful because when
I'm tapping for someone else,
I'm showing them how to do it,
but I'm doing it
on myself, as well.
And that's why the
teachers that I train,
they have this
method which we call
mirror tapping, so
anyone you are helping,
you're also helping yourself.
And that's one of the most
powerful things of tapping
because, usually, when
you're a massage therapist
or you're a healer, sometimes
you might feel drained.
But when you're tapping
and you're a coach,
you're actually supporting that
person through it, and anything
that you have unresolved in
your subconscious around it,
you're tapping
yourself, too, and it's,
in a subconscious way, revealing
and clearing your stuff,
as well.
And so yeah, there's
been countless stories
of people going through things.
I had a person that
had been to Africa--
like, this is one of the really
intense ones-- and you know,
you hear about
things that happen
when people go on these
trips to Africa to help out
and being kidnapped.
And this lady had had
a bag put over her head
and taken to a place.
And you know, each step of those
memories are really intense.
And those memories
can stick with you
unless you're able to
look at it frame by frame.
When it went over my
head, how did that feel?
OK, let's clear that piece.
When I couldn't breathe,
how did that feel?
Let's clear that piece.
When it was really dark and
I'd been there a long time,
how'd that feel?
So you go through
frame by frame.
It's not just like, oh,
big blanket healing.
It's getting into the
details, and each detail,
how did that feel?
Let's clear that out.
Next detail, how did that feel?
Until you've gone through
the whole movie in your mind,
and you can go back and
forth and it's no longer
triggering you.
>> So how does tapping
untrigger painful emotions?
Like, what is the process?
You've explained it, but let's
just go through it again.
And maybe we talk through
an example of somebody
you helped, maybe
another example,
or how you helped yourself.
Let's just go through a little
bit of this process again.
>> Yeah, totally.
So let me drop into an
example to share with you.
OK.
So I have a friend, and
they've come to me for support.
And this is a really
topical piece.
So they were having trouble
within their relationship
and they were going through a
lot of change in their life,
and they weren't
feeling like they
were getting their needs
met from their partner.
And as a result, they were
done with trying to push them,
and they were really
angry and overwhelmed,
and they wanted to move house.
And there was all this stuff
going on as a result of it.
And we came in and we start
doing the tapping process.
So I'll have him massage
the specific points,
talk about what's on the
surface to start with,
so how do you feel.
We process the top of it.
So this has been
happening, and this
is making me feel really
angry and sad and overwhelmed.
And you clear that.
And then once you've
cleared the top of it,
then you start going
a little bit deeper,
and you ask the person,
what's your earliest
memory of feeling a similar
way around this type of topic?
And then what would happen
is, in this instance,
and in pretty much all
instances, a memory occurs.
And usually, it has something to
do with mom or dad or something
happened at a younger age.
And in this one, father
issues came through.
Father wasn't taking care
of me, mom wasn't around.
And we got to look at
some of those pieces,
because that's
where it got set up.
And so we processed that
memory in a similar way, where
we look at it frame by
frame what was happening.
Well, he wasn't there anymore,
or she wasn't there anymore,
and that made me feel
lost, scared, alone,
afraid for my life.
And let's clear that.
And we go through a process of
breathing, talking about it,
and then bringing forgiveness
and love and compassion to it.
And then we even do techniques
where we bring in the higher
self to come in and give
the younger self a hug,
or we invite ourselves to
see our parents' higher
self coming in.
We do techniques where
we imagine ourselves
holding onto that resistance
for the rest of our life
and never letting it go.
And we go all over
the map to really look
at the psychology for
why we're holding on
and why we can't let it go.
And then we bring all of
that love so, finally, you
can release it.
And then when you
release it, then
you start moving into the
process where you start saying,
what do I want to feel?
What do I want in my life?
How do I want this to look?
What am I claiming for myself?
What am I worthy of?
What do I deserve?
And as you ask yourself
those questions,
and now you've got the
spaciousness because you've
cleared out all
the trauma, you've
got the spaciousness in your
being to fully receive it,
and that's able to then set up
into your new way of perceiving
reality.
And then it happens
naturally in your life,
versus telling yourself
all these affirmations
over and over again, but
not actually clearing
out the trauma.
So then you've got
affirmations on top of trauma.
So if you clear out the trauma,
you sink in the affirmations,
they go in deep, and then they
start to grow and flourish
in your being.
>> Cool analogy.
That's really awesome.
I want to ask a little
bit more around this
because I think
it's interesting.
Why do you think people
hold onto emotions?
Do you think it's a
conscious decision,
or do you think it's
something they're not
aware of until they start
tapping and figuring this out?
>> Yeah.
I would say, through working
with all of my clients,
the most prominent
reason is protection.
We think, by holding onto them,
we're protecting ourselves.
If I hold onto this, I'll
remember to look out for that.
There's also reasons of
trying to prove a point.
If I hold onto this, they'll
see that it's an issue for me,
and therefore they'll change.
And so there's a
strategy that's going
on in the subconscious for
why you're holding onto it,
and you think, in a
subconscious level,
that it's actually helping you.
>> Which feels logical,
but ultimately it's not.
So what are the challenges
of holding onto that?
It's a limiting belief system
around clearing emotions
there, right?
>> Yeah, and then because
you haven't let it go,
you're still--
and you haven't
processed it, really,
because if you did
process it, you
would realize that it's
not really helping you,
and you would let it go.
So because it's unprocessed
and you're holding onto it,
you're actually
attracting people
into your life that look
like that so that you
can exorcise it on them.
And you'll keep doing that
until you actually look and say,
OK, it's time to
review this pattern.
It's not helping me.
It's damaging my relationships.
It's hurting my life.
It's hurting my physical body.
And that's when you usually
have that wakeup call.
And sometimes, it takes
a lot to actually take
a look at what
you're holding onto,
because earlier on, you know,
it's not bothering you so much.
You might be a
little bit defensive.
But over time, it builds.
And if it's still unexamined,
it will then, like,
build into something
massive that
is causing disease in the
body or true breakdown
in your relationships.
>> It's almost like we start
the healing process when it gets
bad enough, in a way.
Like, we can deal with it--
it's like eating bad food.
Like--
>> I know.
>> --you can get away with it--
>> Yeah.
>> --when you're younger,
and then after a while,
you're like, this isn't
going to work anymore.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, just tapping into
that a little bit further,
there's lots of discussions
around being parents by split
personality, narcissistic
personality disorder,
these type of sort of
strangely egotistical love,
attention-seeking
personalities in our life,
and then oftentimes, one
of two things will happen.
So if someone's grown up
in an environment where
love is being
withheld or there's
a really dominant personality
that sort of causes
them to sort of behave
and fall into line,
then they can either--
they tend to either attract
a lot of those same people
and situations into their lives.
And you'll see it happen,
and you're like hang on,
you're sort of with the
person that you sort of
despised forever.
And then it just
falls into this trap,
and there's a lack of
awareness, and maybe a lack
of being able to helicopter
out and see that.
And then people get
worried around them.
And there's just
these crazy patterns
that happen in relationships.
You've sort of brought
this up a little bit.
How have you experienced
this to be true or not true?
>> Definitely.
Well, people only
know what they know.
So if you're born into a
family that doesn't love,
then that's what
you think love is.
And so you look for that
because it's comfortable
and it's what you know.
You don't even know that
a whole new level of love
is available out there.
And so you attract people
based on what you expect
and what you grew up
with, a lot of the time.
It's often very hard
for someone that
grew up with punishment or abuse
to even recognize that there's
something better out there.
They may, like, on
the surface know,
but on a subconscious
level, as a child,
especially between the
ages of zero and seven,
you're looking at
your reality, you're
looking at your
parents, the people that
taught you as, like, gospel.
And that sets out the pathways
to this is what reality is,
and this is what you should
expect, and this is normal.
And later on, you still
have those patterns,
so you're looking for that.
You attract that.
And then things
get really hectic,
and you might say, wow, this
isn't really helping me,
but I keep attracting these
types of people into my life.
And then hopefully, you have
some type of support around you
that can help guide you to
understand that there's so much
more out there, so much
more available, so much more
love and caringness that
can come into your life,
even though you've
never experienced it.
And if you've never
experienced it,
like, how do you know it exists?
And that's the process of kind
of stepping over into that.
>> Cool.
Well-explained.
Well done.
It's like you don't know what
you don't know, in a way,
and then there's this
awareness garnering experience
or a pain point
that might cause you
to seek deeper help with that.
Can we go through sort of a
generic process of tapping?
You touched on it
before, but I'd
like a little bit more
detail, if possible--
>> Yeah.
>> --because--
>> Oh, absolutely, yeah.
>> --it's an
interesting strategy,
and I've been taught
tapping by certain people,
Nick Ordner and Alex and some
other people that have been
taught it and showed me, and
it's useful for cravings,
emotional issues, all
this sort of stuff.
So--
>> I can take you through a
little process if you'd like.
>> That'd be great.
And could it be almost
generic in nature?
>> Absolutely.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Let's do that.
>> Absolutely.
>> That'd be really cool.
>> And how much time would
you like me to spend on that?
>> You decide.
>> OK.
>> Three minutes, five
minutes, whatever it might be.
It'd be great to do
a tapping script, so.
>> Love that.
Awesome.
Great.
So let's just
start, and if you're
watching at home, just massage
underneath the collarbone here.
And I'm going to take
you through some points.
And you'll just follow
the points with me.
And don't worry if you
tap on the wrong point.
You really can't mess up,
because there's points
everywhere.
So the most important
piece is to really feel
what's coming up.
Not to intellectualize it,
to let yourself really feel.
And then just follow the point.
That's all you need to do.
OK?
So tune into any challenge
that you're having right
now in your life.
Something that's bothering you,
someone who's triggered you,
something that's really
hurting right now.
And give yourself permission
just to tune into that.
And I'm going to do
a call and response.
So I will share some
thoughts, and then you'll
just repeat them.
And if the word isn't
completely accurate,
just change the word
to match what you feel.
If you don't know what you
feel, then give my word a try
because it's likely
that you're numb.
OK?
So repeating after
me, even though I've
been struggling here, tapping
the center of the chest,
and I just want
you to say out loud
how you've been struggling.
What's been going
on in your world?
Why are you struggling?
How does it feel?
Just go on a little
rant about it.
Talk about it out loud.
I've been struggling by.
And then tap between the brows.
And then just tune
into that struggle.
Tune into how it feels to have
that struggle, that pain that's
coming up, all of that
hurt that's there.
And what's the most intense
emotion that comes up for you?
Is it fear?
Is it anger?
Is it sadness?
Is it grief?
Is it worry?
What is the emotion?
It feels like.
And just name the emotion.
Tapping the temples.
It feels like.
Say the emotion again.
And tapping the cheeks.
And I feel really stuck here.
And you say those words.
And just feel into any
stuckness that's right there.
And I want you to feel what
it feels like in your body.
What's the texture of it?
What's the color of
it, if it had a color?
Where is it in your body?
Where are you
holding it right now?
And then just lean into it.
Really feel it right now.
Lean into it.
Get uncomfortable with it
just for a moment with me.
And then take a big deep
breath and release a big sigh.
[SIGHING]
Awesome.
And then tap
underneath your nose.
I love and deeply accept myself.
Exactly as I am.
Tapping underneath the lips.
Even though I've been
really struggling here.
It's possible I'm
worthy of love.
Tapping the center of the chest.
It's possible.
I can heal this.
Take a big deep breath.
Release a big sigh.
[SIGHING]
Beautiful.
Tapping the front of the ribs.
I love and deeply
forgive myself.
For how hard this has been.
Tapping the side of the ribs.
It's possible I'm still
a good human being.
Tapping the side of the wrist.
It's possible I'm
still worthy of love.
Take another big deep breath.
Release a big sigh.
[SIGHING]
Tapping the side of
the thumb here where
the nail juts out the most.
I am worthy of love.
Tapping the next finger.
I am worthy of
having my needs met.
Tapping the middle finger.
I'm worthy of taking
care of myself here.
And just tune into the struggle
that you've been having.
Tune into when it
was most intense.
And then just imagine yourself
giving yourself a great big hug
of love right now.
All of that love,
all of that empathy,
all of that forgiveness
that you deserve.
You've been trying so
hard to figure it out.
Just receive all of
that empathy right now.
Lean into receiving that.
And then take a big deep breath.
Release a big sigh.
[SIGHING]
Tapping the opposite
side of the next finger.
I love and accept myself.
Tapping the little
finger inside.
And I can move on from this.
And what do you need
in this situation?
What do you need that
will help you feel safe,
feel loved, feel
cared for, encouraged?
What would help right now?
Tapping the side of the hand.
And just tune into
what that is right now.
See what that is.
And then repeating after
me, what I really need is.
And just name it out loud.
What I really want is.
Name it out loud again.
Tapping the top of the head.
And I'm ready to get it.
Tapping between the brows.
And I don't have
to wait any longer.
So are you ready to really
receive it in your life now?
Are you really ready to have
this come into your life
and bless your life?
Tapping the temples.
OK.
So now tune into that
situation, and imagine
yourself giving yourself all of
that which you just asked for.
See yourself receiving
it from yourself.
Tapping the cheeks.
Imagine yourself
receiving it fully,
and how it feels to your body,
how it feels to your heart
to know that you are taking
care of yourself right now,
and that you're taking
care of all of your needs,
and that you are safe,
and that you are loved,
that you are held
and you are beautiful
and you are respected.
And feel yourself
giving that to yourself
right now, how powerful you are.
And then any resistance
to fully receiving, take
a big deep breath
into any resistance
there, and release a big sigh.
[SIGHING]
And tapping underneath the nose.
I can relax here.
Tapping underneath the lips.
I've got this.
Tapping the center of the chest.
I'm ready.
And I love and
deeply accept myself.
And now just imagine
all that self-love just
overflowing now into your
life, into your relationships,
into the things
that you're doing,
knowing that you are
loved, you are beautiful,
you're an amazing human being.
Feel all of that just overflow
into your life right now.
See what's happening
in your life.
See how that blesses everything.
And feel how good it
feels in the body.
What does it feel like?
Does it feel bright or
light or airy or joyful?
What does it feel like for you?
And feel all that.
And then magnify how
beautiful it feels by 50%.
Just beaming out of you.
Magnify that goodness by 75%.
Just filling up
the whole room now.
So good, so worthy, so ready.
And then intensify it by 100%.
So much goodness.
You are powerful.
And take a big deep breath.
Release a big sigh.
[SIGHING]
Beautiful.
And then just tap
all over your body,
and just tell yourself
10 affirmations out loud
about what you're ready for,
about what you're worthy of,
and how beautiful and amazing
and supported you are.
And whenever you're ready,
just coming back down
and just resting your
hands on your heart.
And just feeling that
space, that space of beauty
in your heart.
Thank you.
>> Amazing, first of all.
Amazing.
Really good.
I think there's some
more dynamic places
you've taken that than I have
in my other types of tapping
practice.
So thank you for that.
Beautiful.
>> You're welcome.
Yeah.
Thank you--
>> Really nice.
>> --for sharing it with me.
>> Yeah.
I guess to sort of
finish up while we're
on this high, what is the
big mission behind your work?
Why is it so important for
people to clear emotions?
Why is it more important
now than ever before,
and what is your
real call to arms
for people in the human race
with the work that you do?
>> Well, every single
human being feels emotions.
And in the current
lineage that we're all in,
we haven't all been taught
how to process how emotions.
And as a result, there's a lot
of war, there's a lot of greed,
there's a lot of power
struggle, there's a lot of pain
still in the system.
And that overflows
into our nations,
and then into the
world as a whole.
And I really know
within my being
if we, as individuals,
can come into deep harmony
within ourselves, the
power and the magnificence
that we can create as a
global culture is phenomenal.
No challenge is too big.
We can do absolutely anything.
Because emotions get
in the way of business,
they get in the way
of relationships,
they get in the
way of everything.
And my mission is
to really deliver
this globally on a large
scale to millions of people,
and have that ripple
out, and to teach coaches
and other trainers so that they
can go into their communities
and they can spread it, and
then they can spread it.
And this is such a powerful
tool because it's non-dogmatic.
It's not a religion.
It doesn't have a specific
spiritual practice.
Anyone can do it because
we all relate to emotion.
And I feel like it can
really touch so many people
for that reason,
because it doesn't
have so much stigma on it.
It's just let's feel what we're
feeling and bring ourselves
love.
And we all love to do
that when we do it.
So I feel like we can
really touch the globe
with this message, and
together, as a humanity,
we can transform.
And everything that
we do as a humanity
will transform as
a result of it.
>> Jen Partridge,
you're awesome.
That was really cool.
Thank you so much for
your insight, your wisdom,
your vulnerability, and
your capability to teach me
and others how to tap
into stored emotions,
release that energy, and
go on as peaceful warriors
in this world.
Thank you.
>> Thank you, James.
So grateful.
And what an amazing share.
And the depths of your questions
touched me very deeply.
And I really felt you there
with me each step of the way.
And thank you for creating that
safe container for me to share.
Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]